just about got attacked by a bird well
what's up guys this is Daniel from arms
family homestead and in today's video
we're going to be talking about growing
cucumbers and a five gallon bucket
[Music]
so a couple of weeks ago I showed you
guys how I planted these cucumbers in 55
gallon barrels and look at these things
they are exploding I'm not even trying
to pull the roots out anymore there's no
way but look at these massive cucumbers
these things are loaded down with
cucumbers now I didn't get this one on a
trellis at least not yet but it's got
cucumbers growing off of it and when I
posted that video about growing these
cucumbers in 55 gallon barrels with no
soil in just a water and fertilizer
solution I probably had 500 questions
things like could you put more than one
plant in a barrel well yeah you drill
two holes drop them in there it's gonna
use water about twice as fast so I don't
know if that barrel would last all
season now a lot of people said if it
uses all the water can you just fill it
back up well if the water goes way down
and the roots are way down here and you
fill that barrel all the way back up to
the top you will absolutely drown those
roots so I think you would be good
adding some water but you definitely
don't want to fill it all the way back
up because those roots have to get
oxygen and you would drown them so if
your water level got low and you filled
it back say halfway you'd probably be
okay then I'm had a ton of questions of
well you we see that you can do that in
a 55-gallon barrel but can you do it in
a five-gallon bucket well here's the
thing this is a 55-gallon barrel and
we're putting close to 50 gallons of
water in it probably because we don't
fill it all the way completely full well
a buckets only gonna give you five
gallons I think it could be done but
you're gonna run out of water pretty
quickly I haven't tried it yet so today
we're going to be building a five gallon
bucket cucumber barrel basically and my
thought process is if we do this right
we could hang it from the handle from
one of the rafters and let cucumbers
just rain down from the ceiling of the
greenhouse so let's get started so
here's what I'm going to be
using to start my cucumber plant in and
see if this is gonna work now it's a
mismatch set here I'm using a black
bucket because I think black would
prevent algae growth I'm afraid if I
just used a white bucket the algae would
build up in there pretty fast because
we're not putting anything in here to
prevent algae growth and all I had
laying around was a white lid so it's a
mismatch set and I've got one net Cup
and you don't have to use a net cup you
could use like a little Red Solo Cup and
cut holes all around the bottom anything
that will hold the cucumber plant to
where when you cut a hole in the lid you
can drop it down in there and it sits
down in the water so I'm just going to
be putting one plant in there I'm gonna
using that pot I'm gonna trace out a
circle here and cut a hole I don't have
a hole saw perfect so knees a knife but
it'll be ugly but it'll work so let's
cut a hole so we get our net pot in
there and then fertilizer I'm going to
be using the master blend for dizer
again and I used a little calculator
online it's not perfect but for five
gallons of water you're gonna use about
a tablespoon I don't have I don't have a
scale that measured in grams or we would
get exact but about a tablespoon of the
master blend for 1838 about a tablespoon
of 1500 calcium nitrate and half a
tablespoon of Epsom salt and we'll get
that mixed up when we get our water
ready to go in
yeah perfect fit so here's what we're
looking for
got a hole in the lid drop the cup down
in the camera focus and there's what
you're left with this is where our roots
will hang down inside the bucket just
like this alright so we've got our
bucket ready and I said as I said we're
using master blend fertilizer I bought
this on Amazon guys if you didn't catch
the video on how I did these I talked
all about this master blend fertilizer
it's not something I came up with I
borrowed this idea from pretty much
every hydroponic grower out there it's
probably the most popular hydroponic
fertilizer there is so master blends a
three-way blend and you can buy this
stuff on Amazon in small quantities so
I'll leave a link in the description box
down below if you're looking for
something like that to get started so as
I said I used a conversion chart a
little calculator online I found a
website and it calls for and this isn't
exact but approximately 1 tablespoon of
the 1500 calcium nitrate approximately 1
tablespoon of the master blend for 1838
and 1/2 a tablespoon of Epsom salt let's
get these out of the way we don't want
to get water on those I'm gonna mix this
up really well before we put it in look
at that green slimy looking stuff
[Music]
the Epsom salt takes a little extra
mixing it doesn't it doesn't blend as
easily as the first ingredient it's
important when we put our neck up in
there we don't want to drown the
cucumber plants or just barely gonna get
this filled up to where when it's level
that this is just barely touching the
water
I don't know if you'll be able to see
this in this bucket but here's what I'm
talking about so I don't fill the bucket
completely full you guys may not be able
to see this but when I drop my net pot
in there the water just barely I've got
maybe an eighth of an inch of water in
the bottom of the net Cup I hear little
footsteps somebody's joining me what are
you talking about what am I see oh yeah
our little watermelon plant we didn't we
didn't plant this water morning but
there's flowers so we're gonna have some
watermelons soon you think so and me and
Leon's challenge has already begins and
I guess we're winning so far so this was
just a random watermelon I guess that
either a seed fell or a watermelon
rotted and land laid on the ground last
year and it just it's taken off so I've
got my bucket ready to go got the lid
sealed on here it just clips on so black
bucket hopefully is gonna prevent some
of the algae growth we've got our net
pot ready to go I've got a baby little
cucumber plant that I started in a
little soil block and we're just going
to put that little cucumber in here and
pack I bought I just bought these on
Amazon also this is clay pebbles if
you're familiar with any kind of
hydroponic growing everyone uses these
little they're just little clay pebbles
and they're very light and they hold
moisture so we're gonna put put those
little guys in there and
hack our little cucumber plant pack all
these around our little cucumber plant
oh they're one gun in the bucket that's
right so here's what you're left with
lawn little cucumber plant packed in
there in his new little home and when we
set it down in here it's just barely
gonna touch the water in that soil and
those clay pebbles will just wick water
to the roots and like I said we don't
want to drown the plant so if we filled
this up too far we would drown the roots
the first day this be a dead cucumber
plant so hopefully this works as I said
I've not grown cucumbers in a
five-gallon bucket I have a few concerns
but it's an experiment for you guys and
you never know this may work out perfect
all right so there you have it I'm not
gonna hang this guy up from the rafters
just yet I'm gonna leave it here I'm
just gonna set it on top this other
barrel that's loaded with a giant
cucumber growing already but I'm just
going to set it here so I can check on
it make sure the roots do good are
actually making it down into the water
I'll come out here a couple times
throughout the day for the next couple
days and make sure it's not drying out
but cool little experiment just
something to try because so many of you
have asked hey can you do this in this
and I think so but there are a couple
concerns I have one of those being this
is such a small container there's not a
lot of water and we're in summertime in
Oklahoma and it gets close to 100
degrees on a regular basis plus we're
just barely but we are inside the high
tunnel
I'm afraid the water's gonna get really
hot in here I don't know what that'll do
to the roots on that cucumber plant
where the difference with the big barrel
it would take a long time to heat this
water up versus the amount of time it
would take to heat this water up
especially with it being in a black
bucket that's going to absorb more heat
but I was afraid the white bucket would
promote too much algae growth it'd get
too much sunlight in there I don't know
we'll see what do you guys think let me
know in the comment section down below
I'm proving that you can grow cucumbers
in barrels I mean that guy's reaching up
to the roof of my high tunnel and it's
just loaded down I also have cucumbers
on a trellis in the raised bed they're
producing cucumbers too now a lot of
people said yeah you can grow a cucumber
like that but is it going to have any
flavour well according to my personal
results this right here
tastes a heck of a lot better than a
grocery store cucumber and there's a
really good chance that most of the
cucumber's you're eating in the grocery
store
we're grown hydroponically maybe not all
of them but I bet you most of the year
most of the cucumber's you buy we're
growing a hydroponic solution in a
greenhouse in some other country maybe
I'm wrong but I think it tastes great
growing right here in my barrel in the
water with fertilizer so guys that's all
I've got for today if you've got any
other experiments with cucumbers or
things that you would like me to try let
me know in the comment section down
below and remember I'll leave a link to
that master blender - liser
and the clay pebbles I'll put those in
the description box down below I'm not
an expert when it comes to this
hydroponic stuff I'm just learning
trying things out I know it works great
with cucumbers you guys have asked a
million questions on what else you can
grow that way there if you just Google
or YouTube crack key crack key method
hydroponics you'll see hundreds of
videos of what all you can grow in a
hydroponic solution mostly most people
use a shallow tray and they grow lettuce
and bok choy and greens things like that
cucumbers I've seen a minute in a trash
can this idea in the 55 gallon barrel
came from my buddy Leon from gardening
with Leon I don't know if you could do
Tomatoes than these or not haven't tried
that but let me show you a little secret
real quick something I haven't showed
you guys yet we are trying here with
success so far a watermelon check it out
we'll see how that goes that's that's
the only little watermelon I've got girl
like that so far so I think watermelons
might work we're gonna test it out
because I love learning new ways of
gardening learning new ways of growing
food but anyways guys that's all I've
got for today thanks for watching hope
you enjoyed it y'all have a great day
and as always we'll see you on the next
video